## How did I become a Software developer from a chemist?

In 2015 I graduated in chemical engineering. During my 2 years of master's thesis, I joined a research group where we
investigated synthetic pathways for natural compound synthesis. I gained various knowledge including total synthesis,
and chemical computational methods to determine protein structure and molecular binding to proteins. I do not want to
get deeper into the research itself and I do not want to turn this blog post into a CV (or some cheesy memoir), but I
can say I was very eager I was working on a completely undiscovered topic in science.

### Why did I move to software development?

After my graduation, I won a 4 years PhD scholarship in Spain. It was quite a tough decision for me, I had a girlfriend
back then and I have never ever lived abroad, but on the other hand, it paid well and I knew that the research institute
had infinite resources and gave me plenty of freedom. In the end, I took the opportunity and moved to Spain to start my
PhD. I was not disappointed, there were very smart people working in the institute, we had first-class equipment, and
there were absolutely no financial barriers to doing my research. The group I joined and my boss were completely
different.

The group had very bad dynamics from the beginning, there were two kinds of people: the liked ones and the ignored ones.
I will be frank, we worked insanely lot. The general work time was (not officially of course) from 9 to 21:00, and it
was even expected of us to come at the weekends. It was never officially said that you should work outside working
hours, but you could always sense that if you don’t, you are risking moving into the not-liked and ignored group. I
think my boss choose this method to put enormous pressure on us.
After one year I got very exhausted and overwhelmed so I decided to cancel my PhD and return home. After the bad
experience, I knew I did not want to work in academia anymore, but I also felt that working as a chemist for a company
is not too challenging work for me.

### Attending a Bootcamp

I already gained some coding and computer skills in Java during my master’s, but I did not know how to write
industry-standard code. After considering some options I applied for Progmasters course which offered a 5-month
full-time training and a job guarantee after successfully passing the module exams. I compared some boot camps at the
time present on the market and I ended up at Progmasters. What was convincing was that it was relatively new and the
mentors had several (10+) years of experience in the industry and some of them were lecturers at BME university. Also, I
talked to one of my friends who was working as a software engineer to help me select the best course. Progmasters
assumed that you had previous coding experience, but they provided preparation material for the selection process.
